Title: On Attention
Date: 2018-10-12
Category: Blog
Status: published

In recent years, I have struggled with my attention. I have struggled to focus
on much of anything in my life. I haven't been able to read books quickly or
effectively; I have struggled to get into that superfocused programming state
at work.

I assumed that perhaps I had undiagnosed ADHD. Who knows, that may even be
true. But increasingly I think it's more likely that I've done this to myself.

Since I got my first smartphone in 2009, I have been in a constant mode of
stimulation. Around that same time I discovered podcasts and audiobooks. These
were a boon to me, especially on commutes. Suddenly I felt like that time was
no longer wasted.

Social media became ubiquitous. Reddit had a constant stream of fascinating or
interesting content. Twitter vied for my attention. Algorithms worked to keep
me engaged all of the time.

It's not an interesting story, nor an original one. Our reading lists are full
of books about [breaking up with our phones][1], [deleting social media][2],
and [reclaiming our focus][3]. But the one who finally made me see the problems
in my own life was [CGP Grey][4]. On the (amazing) podcast [Hello Internet][5],
he [explored this problem in his own life][6]. His story was remarkably similar
to mine. I especially empathized with his problems with podcasts. Don't get me
wrong -- podcasts are incredible. The world of podcasts has never been better,
and podcasts are one of only a few things that haven't been consumed by
algorithms (yet). They are a net positive in the world. But my problems with
podcasts are a symptom of something larger (in myself).

[1]: https://www.amazon.com/How-Break-Up-Your-Phone/dp/039958112X
[2]: https://www.amazon.com/Arguments-Deleting-Social-Media-Accounts/dp/125019668X
[3]: https://www.amazon.com/Hyperfocus-More-Productive-World-Distraction-ebook/dp/B077LWZC6Q
[4]: http://www.cgpgrey.com/
[5]: http://www.hellointernet.fm/
[6]: https://overcast.fm/+B1qzR7TJI

I found myself rarely without headphones in my ears. The breaking point was
when I found myself putting my Airpods in for the *30 seconds* that it took me
to go to the bathroom. Silence made me physically uncomfortable. I used
headphones as an excuse to avoid interacting with people. It was a real
problem.

Another problem area I identified was slack (and to a lesser extent, email).
Having these amazing tools available all the time on my phone (and open all day
on my computer), I found myself self-interrupting constantly throughout the day
to see if there was something new in the #videogames channel, the #photography
channel, or in our team or service channels. Even when there were no
notifications, I would interrupt and check my slack or email. A combination of
my proclivity to procrastinate and my brains addiction to these inputs was
letting me get nothing done.

It was also encroaching on my family life. I would open slack when I first woke
up in the morning and find a notification from someone in India. Rather than
waiting until my workday started, I would reply and end up working for an
hour. The same thing would happen on weekends or in the evenings.

## My solution

I cut out all podcasts and audiobooks for almost a month. This was just a reset
-- there was never any chance I would stay away from podcasts. But I needed
some time, and needed some silence.

I've since resumed podcasts, but don't listen to them first thing in the
morning, or before bed. I try to limit them to commutes and chores, or times
when I consciously decide to listen (and decide it won't interrupt my
interactions with my family).

With permission from my manager, I instituted (and communicated) a new policy
for email and slack. I would only check them at the beginning and end of the
workday, and never outside of work hours or on the weekends. I gave out my cell
number and told people to call me instead.

I disabled most notifications on my phone, including all email notifications.
(My personal email is never urgent, either). I completely signed out of my work
slack.

I also set a goal to read for an average of an hour a day.

Note that I wasn't trying to reduce screen time. I love video games and have no
desire to stop playing them. But I wanted my time to be used with
intentionality -- to never feel like I've been wasting time on useless phone
games and pointless reddit threads.

## Did it work?

I think so! I'm still in the middle of it, but I'm getting more done at work
than I have in months. I'm reading more than I have in years. And my phone
pickups have fallen by more than half. I interact more with my family, and am
becoming OK with silence.

## So?

I know, this is long and rambling. And perhaps you don't have any of the same
problems that I have and continue to fight.

But if any of this resonated with you, I encourage you to make a change. Your
solutions may not look like mine -- everyone has different goals and needs. But
we need to control our own lives.

Technology and the internet are amazing tools. Let's use them, rather than
letting them use us.
