Title: Bullet Journaling
Date: 2019-03-02 13:00
Category: Blog

I've recently been on a real [scaling-back-digital-distractions][1] kick. Most
recently, I read _Deep Work_ and _Digital Minimalism_ (both by Cal Newport)
back to back. I highly recommend them. They really confirmed and validated my
efforts to cull distraction in my life, to live more intentionally.

[1]: https://blog.basepi.net/2018/10/on-attention/

After finishing up _Ditial Minimalism_, I happened to find my [Bullet
Journal][2] that I had purchased a few months ago when I stumbled across that
system. I had never gotten around to starting it -- my perfectionist tendencies
keep me from starting a lot of things that could contribute value to my life. I
want to wait until the perfect time and when I'm perfectly prepared. But that's
probably a good subject for another day.

I decided now was as good a time as any to try the insanely popular analog
method for organizing and tracking your life.

I'm not here to review the method itself. You can hit Ryder's short tutorial
[on his website][3] (Ryder Carroll is the creator of the Bullet Journal
system).

[2]: https://bulletjournal.com
[3]: https://bulletjournal.com/pages/learn

What I'm here to report is that it's a really solid system. If you look for
examples on social media, the crazy artistic spreads can be intimidating. But
when you look at the core of the system, none of that is important. The system
itself is simple, maintainable, and built on core principles that really help
maintain focus towards what's important in your life. And it's also more
flexible than any system I've ever explored -- which is important because of
how different our lives are.

The big question going forward for me is the balance between BuJo (as it's
often abbreviated -- I still think it sounds vaguely dirty) and the rest of my
existing system: a combination of calendars and [Omnifocus][4] tasks where I store
*everything*. I often joke that if it's not on my calendar or in omnifocus, it
doesn't exist.

[4]: https://www.omnigroup.com/omnifocus/

I don't anticipate moving away from Omnifocus or my digital calendars.
Omnifocus is just too well-suited to remembering repeated tasks (my quarterly
reminder for spraying for bugs just popped up today, for example). BuJo does
have ways of dealing with these long term repeating tasks, but I'd rather find
what value BuJo can add, rather than trying to shoehorn my whole life into a
system that doesn't automatically share with my wife, like my calendar does.

I think what it adds for me is an easy way to keep track of what happens day to
day, along with forced re-evaluation as to whether something is actually
important in my life.  Bullet Journaling involves a lot of migrating --
rewriting old uncompleted tasks in the new day/week/month that you're working
on. This friction is intentional -- if it's not worth the few seconds required
to rewrite a task, that task can probably be abandoned. This built-in
intentionality is part of why the system is attractive to me.

Bullet Journaling is just one of my many efforts to reclaim intentionality and
focus in my life. I have high hopes that it will continue to be useful. If it
intrigues you, give it a try! It requires very little investment -- just a
notebook and something to write with -- along with a desire to bring more focus
to your life.

I hope you find it useful!
